feat: Added the process of recycling the credentials (#48)
commutatus/awesome: domains/engineering/secure/process_of_credentials_recycling.md

---
title: Process of credentials recycling
nav_order: 6
parent: Secure
grand_parent: Engineering
---

> Recycling the credentials is one of the important process in web development. Recycling the credentials should be done in a regular interval due to many factors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recycling the credentials is an important process in web development. It should be done at regular intervals or due to the following reasons
```

> ## 1. When should we recycle credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When should we recycle credentials
```
Use list items when you are enumerating something, like a set of secuential instructions. This is ok as just a heading, and it stands out by having a higher hierarchy than the rest

> ## How it works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The credentials were exposed
```
If the previous heading was lv 2, and this is a subheading of that one, it should be lv 3 at least.

> - 	The Credentials should be recycled when it is exposed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 	The credentials should be recycled when they are exposed. 
```
"credentials" are plural

-	The exposing credentials can be done by mistakenly by commiting the 	particular credentials in the commit(github) or some other version control.

Example:

-	If the developer working in any public repository or any other Open Source project, If he unknowingly exposed the credentials in any of his commit, the code which he committed can be viewed by anyone, and he/she can misuse the credentials from which we exposed.

-	At this case the credentials should be recycled.

> ## Loose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The credentials are lost
```
Three heading levels

> -	The Credentials should be recycled when the developer loose the credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-	The Credentials should be recycled when the developer loose the credentials
```
"to lose" has only one *o*, "loose" is a different word

> -	The Credentials should be recycled when the developer to lose the credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-	The Credentials should be recycled when the developer to loses the credentials
```

Example:

-	When the developer uses rails encrypted credentials feature, It needs master key to encrypt the credentials.
-	When we loose the master key there is no way to recover our credentials back, if we don't know what are the credentials we used to encrypt.

> ## Unauthorized Usage

Reviewer: Remember to put three heading levels in this one too, and all of the others

-	The Credentials should be recycled when we suspect any unauthorized person uses our credentials.

Example: 

-	If the monthly bill of our postmark is increased suddenly, we should run a diagnosis if some unwanted emails were gone, if it is confirmed then our credentials got exposed in any form.
-	At this stage process of recycling the credentials is the safe way.
After following the above mentioned step, the better way to check how the keys got exposed, if it is not found then recycling of credentials won't help.

### Developer Quits

-	The Process of recycling the credentials is important when the developer quits the job, the one who works in that project, he may know the credentials which he worked.
-	He might can misuse the credentials or accidentally he may use our project credentials in some other Open Source project.

> -	In this case its safe to recycle the credentialls at the time when the developer quits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-	In this case its safe to recycle the credentials at the time when the developer quits.
```

### Recycle credentials in interval basis

> -	To Reduce chaos the Recycling Credentials should be done in a regular intervals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-	To reduce chaos the Recycling Credentials should be done in a regular intervals.
```

-	In this case we can make sure our credentials or not compromised.

## 2. What is the process

> ## Notify other users

Reviewer: Three heading levels, here in in all of the others

> -	In certain cases we can only use one credentials at a time, In this case if we generate new secret id or secret key we need to inform the other users who were using the old one because the old one became invalid if we generate the new credentials.

Reviewer 2: @BALAJI-BALA - can you work with @manikandan0603 to describe the process of notifying other users by Slack/Email. So that we already have the template ready when the need arises?

### Generate new key

-	To recycle the credentials just generate a new key and replace everywhere in the project instead of the old one.

###	Test the newly generated key

-	After replacing the new credentials over the old one just test in the code whether the newly generated key works.

### Remove the old key

-	The major procedure to follow in the process of recycling the credentials is to removing the old key from the projects and from the third party apps.
-	Deleting the old key from the third party apps is the important one after generating the new one because the old keys still have access to the app.

Example:

-	Postmarkapp will allow multiple keys to be in active, if someone exposes some old key in any other open source, the intruder can use the postmarkapp by our old key, It is safe to remove old keys from the apps and from the code base.

### Test after deleting the old keys

-	In some other cases when we are testing the code base before deleting the old credentials after generating the new credentials, the function may work due to the old credentials, that's why its safe to test after deleting the old credentials too.

### Log

> -	Its a good process to log the time and date of when we recycled the credentials in which project, so we know when to recycle the credentials next time.

Reviewer 2: @BALAJI-BALA - can you talk to Karan about this, where in Confluence should we add this, what is the format of the table. Let's get all these details in place as well please.
